The Ritual for the Bodhisattva Vow Arranged According to the Tradition of Patrul Rinpoche Recalling the Qualities of the Three Jewels 1 Prayer to the Bodhicitta and the Bodhisattvas The Consecration of the Environment Consecrating the Offerings The Offering Cloud Dhāraṇī Inviting the Buddhas and their Entourages as a Field of Merit Inviting the Buddhas and their Retinues to Remain Offering the Buddhas their Places I. The Preparation The Seven Branches for Gathering the Accumulations 1. Prostration The Prayer in One Verse: The Prayer in Four Verses: The Great Praise of the Twelve Acts of the Buddha 4 The Short Praise of the Buddha’s Deeds 6 The Praise of the Twelve Acts of the Buddha Offering Homage and Prostration 7 i. Prostration 2. Making Offerings The Thirty-Seven Point Maṇḍala Offering Short Maṇḍala Offering The Three-Kāya Maṇḍala Offering Nirmāṇakāya Maṇḍala Offering Saṃbhogakāya Maṇḍala Offering Dharmakāya Maṇḍala Offering Aspirations ii. Offerings (continued) 11 Offering Our Bodies 3. Confession of Harm iii. Confession 4. The Remaining Four Branches 13 iv. Rejoicing v. Imploring the Buddhas to Turn the Wheel of Dharma vi. Requesting the Buddhas Not to Enter Nirvāṇa vii. Dedication Training the Mind in the Four Immeasurables Giving Away of the Three Bases of Clinging The Preliminary Prayer for Requesting the Attention of the Buddhas, Bodhisattvas and Teachers II. The Main Part Taking the Vows of Bodhicitta in Aspiration and Action Combined The Series of Aspiration Prayers III. Conclusion Recitation of the Dhāraṇī of Pure Discipline Aspiration Prayers Afterword
Homage to the omniscient one!
Thus the Buddha, the transcendent, accomplished conqueror, the tathāgata who has attained suchness, the arhat who has conquered all foes, is a perfectly and completely enlightened buddha, endowed with insight and worthy of reverence,
The sugata who has reached the state of bliss,
The knower of the entire world,
The guide and tamer of beings,
The unsurpassable one,
The teacher of gods and humans,
The Buddha Bhagavat.
The tathāgata is in harmony with all merit.
He does not waste the sources of virtue.
He is fully adorned with patience.
He is the foundation of the treasures of merit.
He is ornamented with the excellent minor marks.
He is the full blossoming of the major marks.
His activity is timely and fitting.
Seeing him, there is nothing displeasing.
He brings true joy to those who have faith.
His insight overwhelms all in its splendour.
His powers are invincible.
He is the teacher of all sentient beings.
He is the father of all bodhisattvas.
He is the sovereign of all the noble ones.
He is the guide who leads beings to the city of nirvāṇa.
He has measureless wisdom.
He possesses inconceivable fearlessness.
His speech is utterly pure.
Its tones are melodious.
One can never have enough of looking at him.
His form is without comparison.
He is unsullied by the realm of desire.
He is quite unsullied by the realm of form.
He is not caught up in the formless realm.
He is completely liberated from suffering.
He is totally liberated from the aggregates.
He is not possessed with the constituents of ordinary experience.
He is in control of the sense fields.
He has cut right through the knots.
He is completely liberated from torment.
He is freed from craving.
He has crossed over the river.
He is perfected in all the wisdoms.
He abides in the wisdom of all the buddhas of past, present and future.
He does not dwell in nirvāṇa.
He abides in perfect finality.
He remains on the level where he sees all sentient beings.
All these are the authentic and supreme qualities of the embodiment of the Buddha.
The sacred Dharma is good at the beginning, good in the middle and good at the end.
It is excellent in meaning,
Excellent in words and syllables.
It is distinctive.
It is totally complete.
It is utterly pure.
It completely purifies.
The Buddha teaches the Dharma perfectly.
It brings unerring vision.
It is without affliction.
It is constant and always timely.
It is trustworthy when applied.
Seeing it fulfils one’s purpose.
The wise can validate it through their own awareness.
The Dharma taught by the buddha relies entirely on training the mind.
It is truly delivering.
It causes one to arrive at perfect enlightenment.
It is without contradiction. It is all-embracing.
It is constant.
It is the cessation of all uncertainty.
As for the Saṅgha of the Great vehicle, they enter thoroughly.
They enter with awareness.
They enter straightforwardly.
They enter harmoniously.
They are worthy of veneration with palms joined together.
They are worthy of receiving prostrations.
They are a glorious field of merit.
Offering to them brings great purification.
They are an object of generosity.
They are in every way the greatest object of generosity.
The lord who possesses great kindness,
The omniscient teacher,
The source of oceans of merit and virtue,
I prostrate to the Tathāgata.
Pure, the cause of freedom from passion,
Virtuous, liberating from the lower realms,
This alone is the supreme, ultimate truth:
I prostrate to the Dharma, which is peace.
Having been liberated, they show the path to liberation.
They are fully dedicated to the disciplines,
A holy field of merit, endowed with noble qualities:
I prostrate to the Saṅgha.
I prostrate to the Buddha, the leader,
I prostrate to the Dharma, the protector,
I prostrate to the Saṅgha, the community,
I prostrate respectfully and always to these three!
The Buddha’s virtues are inconceivable;
The Dharma’s virtues are inconceivable;
The Saṅgha’s virtues are inconceivable.
Having faith in these inconceivables,
Therefore the fruition is inconceivable:
May I be born in a completely pure realm!
Turning us back from the road to the lower realms,
It shows us the road to the higher realms,
And leads to where there is no old age and death:
To this bodhicitta, in homage I bow! 2
I bow to those who have given birth
To this most precious and sacred of minds
Who bring bliss to even those who cause them harm.
In such sources of happiness, I take refuge! 3
Through the force of the truth of Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha,
The blessing of all the buddhas and bodhisattvas,
The great power of the completed accumulation of merit and wisdom,
And the purity of the inconceivable dharmadhātu,
Now this whole environment becomes like the landscape of the buddha-field sukhāvatī, magnificently arrayed with all kinds of exquisite ornaments, captivating and incredible in its beauty.
oṃ sarvavid pūra pūra sura sura āvartāya āvartāya ho spharaṇa khaṃ
In this perfect realm, the sacred possessions of gods and men—forms, sounds, fragrances, tastes, textures, and the like—inconceivable ocean-like clouds of offerings, so pure and enchanting, fill the entire expanse of space:
namaḥ sarva-tathāgatebhyo viśva-mukhebhyaḥ sarvathā kham udgate spharaṇa imaṃ gagana-khaṃ svāhā
namo ratna trayāya | namo bhagavate vajra-sāra-pramardane tathāgatāyārhate samyak-saṃ-bhuddhāya | tadyathā | oṃ vajre vajre mahā-vajre mahā-teja-vajre mahā-vidyā-vajre mahā-bodhicitta-vajre mahābodhi-maṇḍopasaṃ-kramaṇa-vajre sarva-karmāvaraṇa-viśodhana-vajre svāhā
O three sources of refuge, of all directions and all times, along with those who attend you,
In all your wisdom and love, think of living beings, tormented by our negative emotions,
And come now, from limitless realms in unobstructed emanations,
To take your place at the heart of this cloud of offerings.
You are the protectors of all beings, every single one.
You are the deities who remorselessly destroy the māras and their forces.
You who know all things just as they are, in their true nature,
Enlightened ones, with your retinues, come now to this place!
Enlightened ones, over countless incalculable aeons,
Because of your love for sentient beings, you cultivated compassion.
Your aspirations are vast, your vision all complete,
And if now is the time you intend to benefit beings,
Then from the palace of the dharmadhātu, spontaneously perfect,
Display all kinds of magical emanations and blessings,
And to liberate limitless sentient beings,
Come now, I pray and with you your retinue, in all their utter purity.
You are the lords of all dharmas;
Like the hue of refined gold,
Your brilliance brighter than the sun.
With faith and devotion, I invite you here.
You possess peace and great compassion,
You reside in gentleness and the stages of concentration;
You possess Dharma and wisdom free from desire,
And strength that is completely inexhaustible.
Come now, come from that state of peace,
Mighty sages, supreme beings, omniscient ones,
Assume exquisite illusory forms,
And come to this place of offerings, I pray!
Enlightened ones, welcome, now that you have come.
We have such good fortune and merit.
Accept these offerings and then
Turn your minds towards us, please.
oṃ padmakamalaya satvaṃ
Incomparable masters, precious buddhas, as your nature
You possess the blessing of body, speech and mind
Of all the sugatas and bodhisattvas, past, present and future:
In homage I bow to those with such great kindness.
Homage to the Three Jewels!
Supreme among beings, in all the god realms there do not exist other great spiritual practitioners like you.
In this world too there are none, nor even in the realm of Vaiśravaṇa.
In the supreme abodes, the palaces of the gods, there are none, nor in any direction, cardinal or intermediate, are they to be found.
On the whole face of the earth with its mountains and its forests, where could any ever be?
Whenever you take on a form, in every one,
You are honoured as perfectly enlightened buddhas
Endowed with all the thirty-two supreme marks:
To all you victorious ones, I pay homage.
Wherever the perfect buddhas are born,
Where they attain enlightenment,
Turn the wheel of Dharma that pacifies,
And pass into immaculate nirvāṇa,
Where they dwell as sugatas,
Walk and stand and
Where they sleep like lions:
To all those holy places, I pay homage!
Above and below and in between
In the cardinal and intermediate directions,
Be they with form or without:
To the Stūpas, I pay homage!
Homage to the Buddha, Śākyamuni!
You I shall praise, who first awakened the mind of enlightenment,
Then completed the accumulations of merit and wisdom,
And now in this age, through the vast sway of your actions,
Have become the lord and protector of living beings.
Homage to you, who, having taught the gods,
Knew the time had come to tame the human world, and
Descending from the god realm like a great elephant,
Foresaw the family of your birth and entered the womb of Māyādevī.
Homage to you, prince of the Śākyas, born after ten months
In the auspicious Lumbinī grove, where
Brahmā and Indra revered you, your supreme marks
Proving you were destined to be enlightened.
Homage to you, lion among men, in all your youthful vigour,
Displaying your prowess in the games at Aṅga-Magadha,
Where you triumphed over the proud contestants,
So that not one could stand as your rival.
Homage to you, who, to comply with worldly convention,
And avoid all misdeeds, took on a queen and courtiers
And by acting with such skilful means,
So you ruled the kingdom.
Homage to you, who saw that saṃsāra is wholly futile,
Renounced the life of a householder,
And, travelling through the sky,
Ordained yourself before the Viśuddha Stūpa.
Homage to you, who, intent on persevering till enlightened,
For six years practised austerities on the banks of the Nairañjanā,
And taking diligence to its ultimate perfection,
Attained the supreme samādhi.
Homage to you, who, seeking to make meaningful
All your efforts, made throughout beginningless time, sat
Unmoving in the vajra posture beneath the bodhi-tree in Magadha
And awakened into true buddhahood, attaining perfect enlightenment.
Homage to you, who, in your compassion,
Gazed at once upon living beings, then
Turned the wheel of Dharma in sacred places like Vārāṇasī,
And established disciples in the three vehicles.
Homage to you, who destroyed evil-minded opponents,
By defeating the six teachers of the tīrthikas, Devadatta and the rest,
As well as the māras in Vārāṇasī; 5
You were the mighty sage, victorious in battle.
Homage to you, who performed great miracles in Śrāvastī,
Unmatched in their splendour in all the three realms,
And through the offerings made by gods, humans and other beings,
Caused the teachings to prosper and increase.
Homage to you, who, to spur the lazy on to the Dharma,
Left your body, though immortal and like a vajra,
And passed into parinirvāṇa
In the pure abode of Kuśinagara.
Homage to you, who, to show that you had not in reality perished,
And so that beings of the future could gain merit,
Emanated a wealth of relics, and caused
Your remains to be divided into eight portions.
When you were born, chief among human beings,
You took seven steps on this earth and said:
“In this world I am supreme.”
To you, O wise one, I pay homage!
First, you descended from the heaven of Tuṣita,
And in the royal home entered your mother’s womb;
In the grove at Lumbinī, O sage, you were born:
To the victorious ‘god among gods’, I pay homage!
You were tended by thirty-two nurses at the palace,
You spent your youth in sports at the house of the Śākyas;
At Kapilavastu you took Gopā as your wife:
To you who are unequalled in the three worlds, I pay homage!
At the four city gates, you were shown the four kinds of sorrow,
And cut your own hair in front of the Viśuddha Stūpa;
On the banks of the Nairañjanā you practised as an ascetic:
To you who are free from the faults of the two obscurations, I pay homage!
At Rājagṛha you tamed a rogue elephant,
In Vaiśālī the monkeys offered you honey;
In Magadha, O sage, you realized buddhahood:
To you in whom omniscient wisdom blossomed, I pay homage!
At Vārāṇasī you turned the wheel of Dharma,
And in the Jeta Grove you showed great miracles;
At Kuśinagara your wisdom mind passed into parinirvāṇa:
To you whose mind is like the sky, I pay homage!
Through the merit of this brief praise of
The deeds of the Enlightened One, Master of the Teaching,
May the actions of all living beings
Come to equal the acts of the Sugata himself.
O Sugata, may I and others have a form,
An entourage, a life-span, a pure realm
And sublime marks of perfection
Exactly like you.
Through the power of our praising you and this prayer,
In whatever lands we dwell, may
Illness, negativity, poverty, and conflict be quelled,
And Dharma and auspiciousness increase and spread.
In the city of the immortal gods, in the heaven of Tuṣita,
The bodhisattva, holy Śvetaketu, saw the vessel
To contain the successor of the Śākya clan
Was the lady Māyādevī, her eyes of doe-like beauty.
Like the splendour of a sunrise on a mountain’s eastern face,
She gave birth, a lotus opening in blossom, in the Lumbinī grove,
Brahmā and Indra there to serve you, to tend you with all their grace;
You who were prophesied into the lineage of enlightened ones, I bow to you in homage!
Among the Śākya youths, vaunting their athletic physique,
You excelled in your prowess in the sixty four crafts;
All conceded victory and your renown
Filled the eyes and ears of all.
Never were you slave to the noose of craving and desire,
Yet to please your father, you married, but saw this illusion
For the illusion that it was, ruling the kingdom all the while.
So you were known as Sarvārthasiddha: I bow to you in homage!
Though precarious, fraught with danger and with change,
No-one was immune to the allure of the kingdom, save you.
Your mind was captivated by the four encounters that caused renunciation,
And you ordained yourself, a self-originating bhikṣu.
Your constant perseverance, never tiring, by the Nairañjanā river
Gave you the strength of mind to bear the agony of austerities, and
The concentration to keep on taming conceptual thought,
Which delighted the sugatas of the ten directions: I bow to you in homage!
Through three incalculable aeons in samsaric existence,
You sought the meaningful, by binding all your thoughts
With the rope of accumulating merit and wisdom.
Then, beneath the bodhi tree, you put the māras to flight,
And attained enlightenment, as all the buddhas do.
On the ship of the three turnings of the Wheel of Dharma, you save
Beings who rush into saṃsāra’s bottomless and endless abyss,
And ferry them to the perfect levels of liberation and omniscience: I bow to you in homage!
Through the magical power of your miracles in Śravastī,
You rendered speechless the tīrthika teachers who,
With all their analysis and research, drunk on the wine of indulgence, had become oppressive in the extreme.
In the final contest they were humbled, their prestige all drained away,
As you triumphed through the ‘four bases of miraculous powers’.
Though you never experienced the feelings of birth, old age, sickness and death,
To bring disillusion to those who never think on the certainty of death,
You displayed your passing into parinirvāṇa: I bow to you in homage!
As a device to let beings whose merit is weak or small
Increase their practice of the positive and virtuous,
You left relics, that were inexhaustible, in eight shares,
And you slept in the dharmadhātu. So, may I too
Bring perfecting, maturing and creating pure realms to completion,
Then in the great Akaniṣṭha, that transcends the three realms,
Attain manifest buddhahood and through the ten acts displayed by a supreme emanation,
Become your equal, omniscient one, in benefitting beings!
Homage to Mañjuśrī, the youthful!
To all the buddhas, the lions of the human race,
In all directions of the universe, through past and present and future:
To every single one of you, I bow in homage;
Devotion fills my body, speech and mind.
Through the power of this prayer, aspiring to Good Action,
All the victorious ones appear, vivid here before my mind
And I multiply my body as many times as atoms in the universe,
Each one bowing in prostration to all the buddhas.
In every atom preside as many buddhas as there are atoms,
And around them, all their bodhisattva heirs:
And so I imagine them filling
Completely the entire space of reality.
Saluting them with an endless ocean of praise,
With the sounds of an ocean of different melodies
I sing of the buddhas’ noble qualities,
And praise all those who have gone to perfect bliss.
In order to hold this priceless jewel of a mind,
I make offerings to the Tathāgatas,
To the sacred Dharma—that most rare and immaculate of jewels—
And to the buddhas’ heirs, whose noble qualities are without limit.
oṃ vajrabhūmi āḥ hūṃ
The earth is the golden ground, completely pure, full of beauty and power.
oṃ vajrarekhe āḥ hūṃ
The circular iron mountain wall completely surrounds it; in the centre is the letter hūṃ—
Meru, the king of mountains;
In the East is Pūrvavideha, in the South is Jambudvīpa,
In the West is Aparagodaniya, in the North is Uttarakuru.
Beside them are Deha and Videha, Cāmara and Aparacāmara,
Śāthā and Uttaramantriṇa,
Kurava and Kaurava.
The jewel mountain, the wish-fulfilling trees,
The wish-fulfilling cows, the harvest which needs no sowing,
The precious wheel, the precious gem,
The precious queen, the precious minister,
The precious elephant, the precious horse,
The precious general, the Vase of Great Treasure,
The goddess of beauty, the goddess of garlands,
The goddess of song, the goddess of dance,
The goddess of flowers, the goddess of incense,
The goddess of light, the goddess of perfume,
The sun, the moon, the precious umbrella,
The royal banner victorious in all directions:
Here is all the bountiful wealth of gods and men, complete and flawless—
All this I offer
To the root lama in all his compassion, to the glorious, sacred lineage lamas, to the victorious yidam deities and all the deities of their maṇḍalas, to the buddhas and all the bodhisattvas.
Please accept it, with compassion, for the benefit of beings
Having accepted it, please grant your blessing!
The ground is purified with scented water and strewn with flowers.
It is adorned with Sumeru, the king of mountains, the four quarters of the universe, and the sun and the moon;
Thinking of it as the blessed buddha-fields, I offer it.
By virtue of this offering, may all beings here and now attain the happiness of that pure land!
tram guru-ratna-maṇḍala-pūjā-megha-spharaṇa-samaye āḥ hūṃ
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ
One billion universes—a hundred times ten million worlds, 8
Filled with all the wealth of gods and human beings, like the ‘seven precious gems’, 9
My bodies, my possessions, and my sources of merit, all together, I offer them in their entirety, so that
I may attain a nirmāṇakāya birth, to turn the wheel of Dharma, liberating all beings!
The highest heaven of great bliss, the realm of Ghanavyūha,
Perfect with the five certainties 10 and the maṇḍala of the five buddha families,
And inconceivably vast clouds of offerings of every variety of sensual and emotional stimulants—
With this offering, may I enjoy the perfection of the saṃbhogakāya fields!
Where all appearance and existence are completely pure from the very beginning—the youthful vase body,
Ornamented by the play of dharmatā, unceasing compassion,
The realm where all clinging to the perception of kāyas and tikles is naturally liberated—
With this wisdom offering, may I enjoy the freedom of the dharmakāya reality!
To all the masters, who have perfected the three kāyas,
I make offerings outer, inner, secret and of suchness.
Accept my bodies, my possessions and the whole universe,
And grant me the unexcelled supreme siddhi, I pray!
By offering this excellent maṇḍala which delights you,
May no obstacle occur on the path to enlightenment,
May I realize the wisdom mind of all the sugatas, past, present and future,
And, neither deluded in saṃsāra, nor dwelling in the peace of nirvāṇa,
May I liberate beings as limitless as space!
To every buddha, I make offerings:
Of the loveliest flowers, of beautiful garlands,
Of music and perfumed ointments, the best of parasols,
The brightest lamps and finest incense.
To every buddha, I make offerings:
Exquisite garments and the most fragrant scents,
Powdered incense, heaped as high as Mount Meru,
Arranged in perfect symmetry.
Then, offerings vast and unsurpassable
I imagine I give to all the buddhas, and moved
By the power of my faith in Samantabhadra’s Good Actions—
I prostrate and make offering to all you victorious ones.
To the master, to the buddhas and bodhisattvas,
I offer my body, speech and mind at all times.
O supreme bodhisattvas, accept me completely!
In my devotion, my only wish is to be your servant.
For if you take me, fully, into your care,
I will have no fear of saṃsāra, as I will be helping sentient beings.
All the harm I have done in the past is over and done;
No further harm will I create from now on.
O lama, great vajra holder, all you buddhas and bodhisattvas who dwell in the ten directions: turn your attention towards me, I pray!
I, (...insert your name...) throughout time without beginning in saṃsāra until this moment now,
In the grip of negative emotions of attachment, aversion and stupidity,
With my body speech and mind I have committed: the ten negative acts,
The five crimes with immediate retribution,
And the five crimes almost as grave.
I have broken the pratimokṣa vows,
The bodhisattva precepts and the samayas of the secret mantra yāna.
I have failed to respect my mother and father,
My preceptor and master,
And the members of my Saṅgha.
I have performed acts harmful to the Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha,
Abandoned the sacred Dharma,
Disdained the ārya Saṅgha,
And acted so as to harm sentient beings, and more. all these harmful and negative acts I have committed,
Allowed to be committed
Or rejoiced at others’ committing, in short all the downfalls and wrongdoings that will obstruct me from attaining higher realms and liberation,
And will be the cause of saṃsāra and lower realms, whatever they may be, in their entirety, in the presence of you, the lama, great vajra holder, and all the buddhas and bodhisattvas who dwell in the ten directions, I openly acknowledge and purify them!
I do not hide them.
Nor do I conceal them.
From now on I vow never to commit them again!
If I openly acknowledge and purify them, I shall attain the state of bliss;
If I do not, that will never be.
Whatever negative acts I have committed,
While driven by desire, hatred and ignorance,
With my body, my speech and also with my mind,
Before you, I confess and purify each and every one.
With a heart full of delight, I rejoice at all the merits
Of buddhas and bodhisattvas,
Pratyekabuddhas, those in training and the arhats beyond training,
And every living being, throughout the entire universe.
You who are like beacons of light shining through the worlds,
Who passed through the stages of enlightenment, to attain buddhahood, freedom from all attachment,
I urge you: all of you protectors,
Turn the unsurpassable wheel of Dharma.
Joining my palms together, I pray
To you who intend to pass into nirvāṇa—
Remain, for aeons as many as the atoms in this world,
And bring well-being and happiness to all living beings.
What little virtue I have gathered through my homage,
Through offering, confession, and rejoicing,
Through exhortation and prayer—all of it
I dedicate to the enlightenment of all beings!
May all mother-like sentient beings, as limitless as space, enjoy happiness and the causes of happiness!
May all mother-like sentient beings, as limitless as space, be free from suffering and the causes of suffering!
May all mother-like sentient beings, as limitless as space, never be apart from the sacred happiness devoid of suffering!
May all mother-like sentient beings, as limitless as space, dwell in boundless equanimity, which is free from attachment to some and aversion to others!
My bodies and likewise my possessions
And all my merits, past, present and future,
I give them all away, withholding not a thing,
To bring about the benefit of sentient beings. 14
All you buddhas who dwell in the ten directions
All you great bodhisattvas on the ten levels,
All you great teachers, the vajra-holders, turn your mind towards me, I pray!
Until I realize the essence of enlightenment,
I take refuge in the buddhas,
And likewise in the Dharma,
And the assembly of bodhisattvas. 15
Just as the sugatas of former times
Aroused the bodhicitta
And established themselves by stages
In the training of a bodhisattva,
Just so, for the benefit of beings
I will arouse bodhicitta
And likewise I will train
Progressively in those disciplines. 16
Today, my birth has been fruitful
I have well obtained a human existence.
Today I am born into the family of the buddhas:
I have become a son or daughter of the buddhas. 17
From now on, at all costs, I will perform
The actions befitting to my family.
I will not be a stain
On this faultless noble family. 18
Just like a blind person
Happening upon a priceless jewel in a heap of rubbish,
So, through some fortunate coincidence,
The bodhicitta has been born in me. 19
Today, in the presence of all the protectors,
I invite all beings to the state of sugata,
And, meanwhile, to happiness and bliss:
Gods, asuras and others—rejoice! 20
O sublime and precious bodhicitta,
May it arise in those in whom it has not arisen;
May it never decline where it has arisen,
But go on increasing further and further!
May they not be separated from bodhicitta,
But be always inclined to enlightened action:
May they be cared for by the buddhas, and
May they abandon harmful action.
May the bodhisattvas’ good wishes
For benefitting beings be fulfilled.
Whatever the protectors have intended for them:
May sentient beings receive it.
May all sentient beings be happy.
May all the lower realms be forever empty.
May the aspirations of all the bodhisattvas
Of the various bhūmis be fulfilled!
Homage to all the Tathāgatas!
Homage to the bodhisattva, the mahāsattva, the noble Lord Avalokiteśvara!
oṃ amoghaśīla saṃvara saṃvara vara vara mahā-śuddha-sattva-padma-vibhūṣita-puja-dhara-dhara-samanta-avalokite hūṃ phaṭ svāhā
May all aspects of the pāramitā of discipline be perfected completely within the minds of all sentient beings, including me.
May all the harmful actions and obscurations caused by breakages in discipline due to negative emotions be cleansed and purified.
May I possess the good fortune to practise discipline that pleases the noble ones.
May I attain the bliss of complete liberation, that is free from the oppression of negative emotions.
May my discipline be free from any flaw,
May my discipline be completely pure,
With discipline devoid of complacent pride,
May I complete the pāramitā of discipline.
Following in all the buddhas’ footsteps,
May I bring Good actions to full perfection;
May my conduct and discipline be flawless and pure,
May it never fail me or be at fault.
Through the power of training to abandon both harming others and the attitude behind it,
May the thought of doing harm arise not even in my dreams;
May everything be auspicious for me to have that perfect discipline,
Which never diverges from the altruistic mind of bodhicitta!